-   What were the most compelling topics learned in this course?

The most compelling topic for me to study was non-functional
requirements. I think I walked into this class with the advantage of
having worked as a software engineer for a while, so I was able to bring
a lot of architectures to the table that I'd already worked with before.
It was nice to be able to take some time to do an in-depth study into
how some architectures strongly support certain qualities and others
don't. It really helped me understand the *purpose* behind a given
architectural decision.

-   How did participating in discussions help your understanding of the
    subject matter?Â Is anything still unclear that could be clarified?

I think the discussion boards were fun to read most of the time. I liked
being exposed to some new patterns I hadn't seen before, or even some
that I'd seen but didn't have a name for. It was nice reading what my
classmates had compiled because a lot of times I feel like I have web
development tunnel vision. That's the realm I live in for 40-50 hours a
week if not more, so it's nice to see adjacent perspectives. I don't
have anything that needs additional clarification.

-   What approaches could have yielded additional valuable information?

I feel like I say this for all these posts, my answer is always more
time. It's very convenient that these classes are 5 weeks long and able
to fit in with my busy life schedule, but I'd really like to be able to
take my time to dig into some of these topics. I like to think that I'm
a life-long learner, which is a trait very much required to be
successful in software since it's always changing. I'm certain that I'll
be diving deeper into architecture and design patterns outside of this
course and my time at CTU.
