Hey all!

My name is Aidan Polivka, and I'm a full stack software engineer from
Lincoln Nebraska. I was born and raised in the capital city Lincoln, and
I spent 4 years in Crete Nebraska for my undergrad. Crete is a small
town just southeast of Lincoln. I'm currently going to CTU in pursuit of
a master's degree in computer science with a dual emphasis in software
engineering and cyber security! At home I have two cats (Smokey &
Bandit) and my wife Destiny and I just got married last month! We're
still working on getting her moved in right now. My hobbies include
working on small software engineering projects, maintaining a powerful
Minecraft server, smoking cigars while smoking meat, Husker football,
and wrenching on cars.

I started my professional journey at Doane University in Crete with a
small internship writing SQL queries, and then graduated in 2020 with a
B.S. degree in Computer Science. My first job out of college was at a
company called Sandhills Global, and I worked there for a year and a
half modernizing old Visual Basic webforms services into C# .NET MVC
projects. I left Sandhills halfway through 2022 and started at my first
software contracting job where I worked in a variety of software stacks
and cloud platforms. I ended up leaving that company because I was
overworked, and now I'm at Nelnet currently in between contracting
projects. I'm primarily a full stack .NET engineer with advanced
experience in C# and VB.NET, React, Angular, multiple database
management systems, along with Azure, Google, and Oracle cloud
platforms. I'm hopeful that once I'm done with my master's I'll be a
Senior Engineer or Solution Architect, eventually I'd like to be the
person in charge of outlining development practices, patterns, and
infrastructure decisions.

I'm very excited by this course, this is the direction I'd like to take
my career next so I can't wait to get into some software architecture
patterns! Hopefully I'll learn plenty of new architecture design
principles and be able to bring them back to my job. I think I'm on
track to be a tech lead in my next contracting position, so this course
couldn't have come at a better time.
