**Article Title**: What is Information Security?

**Publisher:** GeeksForGeeks

**Publication Date:** Apr 7, 2023

One of my favorite sources for technological information is
GeeksForGeeks, so it was only natural that I turned to them for some
fundamental information on information security. One of the most
important concepts that this article went over was the three objectives
of Information Security, also known as the CIA:

1.  Confidentiality: Information cannot be shared with unauthorized
    individuals or entities. Authorization is a highly important tool to
    ensure that whoever is requesting access to information is
    identifiable, and their identity is verifiable.

2.  Integrity: Data integrity is hugely important. There are authorized
    processes that result in data manipulation/mutation, and
    processes/individuals that are not authorized to make these changes
    should not have access to this ability. If they did, that could
    result in a lack of data integrity.

3.  Availability: Up to date and accurate information should be
    available upon request. For example, if an employee, or individual
    who previously had access to secure data recently lost such
    authorization and made a request, the target system should be able
    to pull accurate data on the requester and deny access.

The article goes on to explain that organizing your systems' security
posture with an information classification system offers several
advantages. It results in improved security due to the ability to
classify sensitive information, and the ability to follow industry
compliance standards like HIPAA and PCI-DSS. Cost savings are an
additional benefit because your organization can save money by not
securing data that's determined "non-sensitive" (or at least loosening
security restrictions on this data), being able to better manage risks
by having the data sensitivity predefined and having a better
understanding of the required incident response based on the sensitivity
of data involved.

The article also explains the disadvantages of using an information
classification system in that it introduces additional complexity, a
sense of potential false security, and additional maintenance. This
complexity can result in a lack of flexibility, and the possibility of
inaccurate classification of data. The article continues to define some
additional uses of Information Security, like disaster recovery,
authentication, encryption (the ability to protect sensitive information
using a cypher), network security and physical security.

Finally, GeeksForGeeks explains the potential threats to secure data,
and the variety of different methods that bad actors can use to steal
and threaten secure information (phishing, malware, ransomware, insider
threats, human error).

This article I think has the potential to have a large impact on
day-to-day activities. I think it's important to always consider
information security in how you operate online. While at work, you
should always be cautious about links in emails, texts, and direct
messages. If you're working on building a new software system you should
ask the heavy security and access control questions up front. If you're
working with networking, you should be asking questions about secure
transit of information, and whether information needs to be encrypted at
rest. These are all things that I personally have to maintain context of
on a day-to-day basis for my work.

I think this is important information for organizations as well. I
didn't get into too much detail from my summary for the security
threats, but individuals in an organization should absolutely go though
regular internet security training. The basics are where people slip up,
like phishing emails, and plugging in USBs that you thought were safe.
The article also provided valuable information in developing a security
posture for your organization. The suggestion to use
Authentication/Authorization (which are two separate things, but ideally
used together) is a very valid suggestion. Most places are using some
sort of multifactor authentication these days, and it's because it's a
robust security measure. I also think that the information
classification system is important in financial/health organizations.
Those organizations have their own sets of compliance guidelines that
can be very, very expensive if it's found that your organization is
non-compliant. Having a good way to delineate between PII, and non-PII
information would be beneficial to an organization dealing in secure
data.

I don't personally disagree with much of what the article is saying. I
think that the article didn't do a great job at organizing the
information, it felt a little strange that it jumped right into
information classification systems, but oh well. I was able to digest
the information quickly, which is what I was looking for. The content
itself I agreed with.

GeeksforGeeks. (2023, April 7). What is information security?.
GeeksforGeeks.
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-information-security/
