Systems Engineering Management Plan

System Engineering Methods: CS672

Aidan Polivka

May 5, 2024

# 

# Executive Summary

# Document History

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Date          **Modification Details**
  Modified**      
  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  May 5, 2024     Creation and outlining of initial release

  May 12, 2024    Introduction: Purpose, System Overview & Project
                  Schedule
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

# Table of Contents

#  {#section-1 .TOC-Heading}

[Executive Summary [i](#executive-summary)](#executive-summary)

[Document History [ii](#document-history)](#document-history)

[Table of Contents [iii](#table-of-contents)](#table-of-contents)

[Introduction [1](#introduction)](#introduction)

[Purpose [1](#purpose)](#purpose)

[System Overview [1](#system-overview)](#system-overview)

[Project Schedule [2](#project-schedule)](#project-schedule)

[System Engineering Processes
[3](#system-engineering-processes)](#system-engineering-processes)

[Project Organization [3](#project-organization)](#project-organization)

[Decision-Making Process
[3](#decision-making-process)](#decision-making-process)

[Environments [3](#environments)](#environments)

[Configuration Management
[3](#configuration-management)](#configuration-management)

[System Engineering Model
[3](#system-engineering-model)](#system-engineering-model)

[Requirements Engineering -- Conceptual Design
[3](#requirements-engineering-conceptual-design)](#requirements-engineering-conceptual-design)

[Compilation of Client Needs
[3](#compilation-of-client-needs)](#compilation-of-client-needs)

[Functional Analysis -- Preliminary Design
[3](#functional-analysis-preliminary-design)](#functional-analysis-preliminary-design)

[Client Driven System Roadmap: Components, Attributes & Relationships
[3](#client-driven-system-roadmap-components-attributes-relationships)](#client-driven-system-roadmap-components-attributes-relationships)

[Design Processes [3](#design-processes)](#design-processes)

[Agile Iterative Design and Development
[3](#agile-iterative-design-and-development)](#agile-iterative-design-and-development)

[Development Processes
[4](#development-processes)](#development-processes)

[Software [4](#software)](#software)

[Hardware [4](#hardware)](#hardware)

[System Integration [4](#system-integration)](#system-integration)

[Build Management [4](#build-management)](#build-management)

[Verification [4](#verification)](#verification)

[Validation [4](#validation)](#validation)

[Specialty Engineering
[5](#specialty-engineering)](#specialty-engineering)

[System Deployment [6](#system-deployment)](#system-deployment)

[Site Preparation [6](#site-preparation)](#site-preparation)

[System Installation [6](#system-installation)](#system-installation)

[System Checkout [6](#system-checkout)](#system-checkout)

[User Training [6](#user-training)](#user-training)

[Support Engineer Training
[6](#support-engineer-training)](#support-engineer-training)

[Product Support [7](#product-support)](#product-support)

[Maintenance [7](#maintenance)](#maintenance)

[Feedback Mechanism [7](#feedback-mechanism)](#feedback-mechanism)

[Communication Workflow
[7](#communication-workflow)](#communication-workflow)

[Logistics Support [7](#logistics-support)](#logistics-support)

[Disposal [7](#disposal)](#disposal)

[Summary [8](#summary)](#summary)

[References [9](#references)](#references)

# 

# Introduction

## Purpose

Heartland Escapes is a (fictional) Nebraska based family-owned bookstore
that has been in business for a very long time. They have been set in
their ways as far as store processes go and are far behind the curve for
integrating technology into their business. As a result, the store
owners have put many hours into paper-based inventory keeping, product
ordering, employee timecard management and accounting. Frankly, the
owners would be happy to continue handling all this work manually, but
they are finding that with age they want to spend less time in the
store. With how much knowledge is required to handle these processes, it
will cost them a lot of money to hire additional hands to continue to
support their paperwork.

## System Overview

The system we develop for Heartland Escapes will be an administrative
webapp. This application will be a single service to handle all their
needs. It will support inventory management, employee time management,
sales, accounting, and product re-ordering. This application will act as
an e-commerce site for general users, and we will use role-based access
permissions to support administrative functionality like order tracking,
sales reporting, manufacturer information and inventory management. This
new system will also support an employee role that allows employees to
punch in and out using a custom time management system. This system will
also support connections to cash registers for administrative and
employee roles that are on the same network for an integrated point of
sale system.

## Project Schedule

Here is a list of key milestones we plan to accomplish throughout the
course of this project:

1.  Project directors & architecture staff introduction to major
    stakeholders

2.  Onboarding of senior development staff

3.  Client driven event storming sessions

4.  High-level development roadmap

5.  Solution Architect proposal for major technologies

6.  Project management proposal for story development, bug remediation
    process, and technical debt management

7.  DevOps Architect development and rollout of infrastructure as code

8.  Solution Architect development and rollout of shell applications

9.  Solution Architect rollout of project software development
    guidelines

10. Rollout of Development environment & CI/CD Pipeline

11. Rollout of Staging environment & CI/CD Pipeline

12. Onboarding of large-scale development effort (engineers, UI/UX
    designers, data engineers, scrum masters, acceptance testers, etc.)

13. Major Feature rollouts (preliminary ideas before client driven
    roadmap)

    a.  User roles, authorization & authentication

    b.  Inventory system

    c.  Point of Sale system

    d.  Product re-ordering system

    e.  Employee time management

    f.  Reporting system

14. Rollout of Production environment & CI/CD Pipeline

15. Deployment of in-store system to production environment,
    implementation of new system to Heartland Escapes

16. Rollout of e-commerce Development environment & CI/CD pipeline

17. Rollout of e-commerce Staging environment & CI/CD pipeline

18. E-commerce system development

19. E-commerce system production rollout

20. Establishment of maintenance plan with stakeholders

21. System handoff to maintenance team

# System Engineering Processes

## Project Organization

## Decision-Making Process

## Environments

## Configuration Management

## System Engineering Model

## Requirements Engineering -- Conceptual Design

### Compilation of Client Needs

## Functional Analysis -- Preliminary Design

### Client Driven System Roadmap: Components, Attributes & Relationships

## Design Processes

### Agile Iterative Design and Development

## Development Processes

### Software

### Hardware

### System Integration

### Build Management

## Verification

## Validation

# Specialty Engineering

# System Deployment

## Site Preparation

## System Installation

## System Checkout

## User Training

## Support Engineer Training

# Product Support

## Maintenance

### Feedback Mechanism

### Communication Workflow

## Logistics Support

## Disposal

# Summary

# References

02DCE. (2018, June 17). *Software Engineering \| Requirements
Engineering Process - GeeksforGeeks*. GeeksforGeeks.
<https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/software-engineering-requirements-engineering-process/>

*AGILE PRACTICE GUIDE*. (2017). Project Management Institute Inc.
<https://www.agilealliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/AgilePracticeGuide.pdf>

Bowman, A. (2023, July 26). *Appendix J: SEMP Content Outline - NASA*.
NASA.gov.
<https://www.nasa.gov/reference/appendix-j-semp-content-outline/>

Kumar, V. (2015). Functional Analysis in Systems Engineering:
Methodology and Applications. *Journal of Emerging Technologies and
Innovative Research*, *2*(10).
<https://www.jetir.org/papers/JETIR1701952.pdf>

Blanchard, B. S., & Fabrycky, W. J. (2016). Systems Engineering and
Analysis (5th ed.). Pearson Learning Solutions.
<https://coloradotech.vitalsource.com/books/9781323417522>
