Discussion Board 3

Aidan Polivka

5/16/2024

I would argue that maintainability is the most important "-ibility" in
systems engineering. Of the 6 "-ibilities" outlined on the discussion
board prompt (Feasibility, Reliability, Usability, Maintainability,
Producibility, Disposability), strong maintainability of a system best
mitigates the pitfalls of a system that is weak in the other
"ibilities".

Let's start by talking about what a "maintainable" system is. I think a
maintainable system is well built, well documented, and open for
expansion. A maintainable system is loosely coupled to third party
software, making them simpler to replace. A maintainable system's
sub-systems are also loosely coupled between one another, allowing for
modularization and sub-system refactoring. Using the standard project
example, the employee time management sub-system should be
self-contained and able to be easily refactored without breaking the
inventory or point of sale systems.

I think one of the strongest challengers to maintainability's importance
is Feasibility. With poor feasibility, a system possibly can't even be
built. Poor feasibility means that the requirements established by the
business aren't easy or cost effective to implement. However, with a
well-built, maintainable system, difficult problems or system expansions
are much more manageable. Even if the problem isn't feasible, a
well-built system has the best shot at supporting something close to
what the client wants.

With a maintainable system, if the reliability of the system is
suffering it'll be easier to fix the unreliable parts of the system. A
maintainable system is well documented and built to scale and expand.
So, in a buggy system it should be easy to identify and resolve bugs, or
even refactor and rebuild parts of the system. Additionally, a
maintainable system's components are self-contained and loosely coupled.
This means that the unreliable parts of a system can be fixed without
impacting seemingly unrelated parts of the system.

If the system lacks usability but is strong in maintainability, the
parts that aren't user friendly are well documented and are more easily
refactored. If the system was well documented and built in a way that is
option enabling, it should be easy to identify and implement refactoring
opportunities. This problem again benefits from the loose coupling of a
well built system in the same way that an unreliable system does.

Producibility in my mind is the second most important "ibility". If
procedure isn't well defined, and the development process isn't suitable
to keep the project moving at a strong pace then stakeholder trust is
going to suffer. Without good faith from the stakeholder and good
project velocity, the project risks being abandoned. It won't matter how
maintainable the system is if the project is shut down. However,
building a system that can pivot, is well built, and well documented
will more easily allow for a project development restructuring.

The final "ibility" is disposability. This concept refers to how easily
a system can be disassembled. I would think that a strongly disposable
system would be well modularized, and components would be easily
swappable. I think this concept is also true for a maintainable system.
A maintainable system should also be disposable in that its components
can be replaced with new components.
