Hello!

Part 1

After skimming through most of the assigned reading from the book, it
seems to me that the design process for the system engineering method is
one of the most important contributors to a successful project. I
believe this is true from my own development experience as well. While
going through the course material, I'm thinking a lot about the projects
I've been on and where the pain points were in the system engineering
process. I think really what it boils down to is inadequate design
practices!

A lot of projects tend to want to follow "Agile" principles of iterative
development and design and are afraid to do any form of top-down,
waterfall-esque design (even at the front-end definition of customer
need and a system development road map). I've noticed that this adds a
lot of re-work, re-design, and back tracking in development. A lot of
people who are major proponents of this methodology seem to think that
this is the only way to be able to change direction quickly (or with
agility, hence the name "Agile") in response to changes in stakeholder
requirements. It's clear to me that leadership in my pervious projects
has been afraid of the conceptual and preliminary design process being
too far reaching, where it should just be a high-level outlining of
needed technologies and high-level event storming with the client.
Instead they over-correct and don't do enough of the top level design.
These steps are crucial to understanding staffing requirements, needed
technologies and tools, and optimal staff structures (team composition
and skill distribution).

Something that I don't find important, for software development in
particular, is staff location. With more engineers getting used to
remote development environments, developers being within the same
geographical location as the client doesn't seem to be as important
anymore. There are several tools that help facilitate working from home,
including virtual offices and video conferencing software. Where this
*does* become a concern is with government contracts. A lot of
government contracts require that all staff be physically located within
the United States. Another consideration is staff being in different
time zones. A lot of the projects I've been on expected all engineers to
work within the 9-5 of their corporate office, and it was understood
that individuals working for that company would work on the company's
time rather than their own.

Another piece to this process that I think is highly important is the
decision-making process. This includes electing staff and titles on the
project that have decision-making power. I've noticed that projects tend
to run more smoothly when the masses aren't trying to make decisions,
but rather there is a central individual or group of individuals that
give software development design direction. This is my own qualm with
flat corporate structures that operate under the guise of all
individuals having the same decision-making power. In my experience this
just leads to a lot of chatter and confusion.

Part 2

I don't think I have any proposed changes to the model. If I had one
area to focus, I would go into detail on the design process. Here I
separated out the conception and preliminary design process into the
System Engineering model, and emphasized the iterative refinement
process as a sub-heading of the design process:

1.  Title page

2.  Executive Summary

3.  Document History

4.  Table of Contents

    1.  Introduction

    2.  Purpose

    3.  Document Overview

    4.  System Overview

    5.  Project Schedule

    6.  References

5.  System Engineering Processes

    1.  Project Organization

    2.  Environments

    3.  Decision-Making Process

    4.  System Engineering Model

        1.  **Method for Compilation of Client Needs**

        2.  **Client Driven System Road Map**

    5.  System Engineering Processes

        1.  Configuration Management

        2.  Requirements Engineering

        3.  Functional Analysis

        4.  Design Processes

            -   **Iterative Design & Agile Refinement**

        5.  Development Processes

            -   Software

            -   Hardware

            -   System Integration

            -   Build Management

    6.  Verification

    7.  Validation

6.  Specialty Engineering

7.  System Deployment

    1.  Site preparation

    2.  System installation

    3.  System checkout

    4.  User training

    5.  Support engineer training

8.  Product Support

    1.  Maintenance

    2.  Logistics support

    3.  Disposal

References:

Blanchard, B. S., & Fabrycky, W. J. (2016). Systems Engineering and
Analysis (5th ed.). Pearson Learning Solutions.
https://coloradotech.vitalsource.com/books/9781323417522
