Hey all!

My name is Aidan Polivka, and I'm a full stack software engineer from
Lincoln Nebraska. I was born and raised in the capital city Lincoln, and
I spent 4 years in Crete Nebraska for my undergrad. Crete is a small
town just southeast of Lincoln. I'm currently going to CTU in pursuit of
a master's degree in computer science with a dual emphasis in software
engineering and cyber security! At home I have two cats (Smokey &
Bandit) and my wife Destiny and I just got married in June! My hobbies
include working on small software engineering projects, maintaining a
powerful Minecraft server, smoking cigars while smoking meat, Husker
football, and wrenching on cars.

I started my professional journey at Doane University in Crete with a
small internship writing SQL queries, and then graduated in 2020 with a
B.S. degree in Computer Science. My first job out of college was at a
company called Sandhills Global, and I worked there for a year and a
half modernizing old Visual Basic webforms services into C# .NET MVC
projects. I left Sandhills halfway through 2022 and started at my first
software contracting job where I worked in a variety of software stacks
and cloud platforms. I ended up leaving that company because I was
overworked, and now I'm at Nelnet currently in between contracting
projects. I'm primarily a full stack .NET engineer with advanced
experience in C# and VB.NET, React, Angular, multiple database
management systems, along with Azure, Google, and Oracle cloud
platforms. I recently achieved my Google Cloud Professional Software
Developer certification as well. I'm hopeful that once I'm done with my
master's I'll be a Senior Engineer or Solution Architect, eventually I'd
like to be the person in charge of outlining development practices,
patterns, and infrastructure decisions.

I'm most excited to learn about requirements elicitation, I feel like
that's one of the most important parts of the process. I'd be curious to
learn some techniques around that. I'm excited to get more in depth
about requirements, considering I'd taken Software Engineering Methods.
