# Project Proposal (Standard Class Project)

Heartland Escapes is a (fictional) Nebraska based family-owned bookstore
that has been in business for a very long time. They have been set in
their ways as far as store processes go and are far behind the curve for
integrating technology into their business. As a result, the store
owners have put many hours into paper-based inventory keeping, product
ordering, employee timecard management and accounting. Frankly, the
owners would be happy to continue handling all this work manually, but
they are finding that with age they want to spend less time in the
store. With how much knowledge is required to handle these processes, it
will cost them a lot of money to hire additional hands to continue to
support their paperwork.

Our proposal is to create an administrative webapp for Heartland
Escapes. This application would be a single service to handle all their
needs. It would support inventory management, employee time management,
sales, accounting, and product re-ordering. This application would act
as an e-commerce site for general users, and we would use role-based
access permissions to support administrative functionality like order
tracking, sales reporting, manufacturer information and inventory
management. We would also support an employee role that would allow
employees to punch in and out using a custom time management system.
This system would also support connections to cash registers for
administrative and employee roles that are on the same network for an
integrated point of sale system.

There may be future work that we can consider, like google advertising
for the e-commerce site, illustrations for buyers, and predictive buying
algorithms for customers. These are items that we may pitch to Heartland
Escapes after the full primary system is developed but is not the focus
of this proposal.

# Preliminary References

02DCE. (2018, June 17). *Software Engineering \| Requirements
Engineering Process - GeeksforGeeks*. GeeksforGeeks.
<https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/software-engineering-requirements-engineering-process/>

*AGILE PRACTICE GUIDE*. (2017). Project Management Institute Inc.
<https://www.agilealliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/AgilePracticeGuide.pdf>

Bowman, A. (2023, July 26). *Appendix J: SEMP Content Outline - NASA*.
NASA.gov.
<https://www.nasa.gov/reference/appendix-j-semp-content-outline/>

Kumar, V. (2015). Functional Analysis in Systems Engineering:
Methodology and Applications. *Journal of Emerging Technologies and
Innovative Research*, *2*(10).
<https://www.jetir.org/papers/JETIR1701952.pdf>

Blanchard, B. S., & Fabrycky, W. J. (2016). Systems Engineering and
Analysis (5th ed.). Pearson Learning Solutions.
<https://coloradotech.vitalsource.com/books/9781323417522>
