Requirements are needed because they outline the wants and needs of the
stakeholders for the outcome of their desired software product. Defining
requirements can be challenging, especially due to communication gaps
between technical staff and stakeholders. Requirements engineering
bridges this gap by ensuring that stakeholder needs are properly
understood and communicated. Requirements engineering is the systematic
process around gathering, defining, and refining requirements from
stakeholders for a system or software product. Requirements can be
categorized into two groups: Functional and Non-Functional. Functional
requirements specify the system\'s behaviors and actions, like
role-based access controls. Non-functional requirements are quality
attributes that can be assigned to the new software system.
Non-functional requirements are often referred to as the "-ilities".
Some examples would be maintainability, scalability, reliability,
testability, etc.

Once requirements are gathered, it is crucial to document them
effectively. There are many qualities that make a good requirements
document. One of the first tenets of a successful requirements document
is understanding user need, or user story. To do so, the "three W's"
must be defined. For *whose* benefit is this requirement generated?
*What* needs to be done to accomplish this requirement? *Why* is this
requirement needed? All of these questions help further define the
requirement, provide clarity, and remove ambiguity. Requirements should
also be prioritized so that critical requirements can be emphasized
first. Finally, requirements should be separate from design. The
definition of the software product's utility should be distinct from its
implementation. This helps reduce scope creep and allows the design to
be up to the software engineer fulfilling the development of the
requirement (Deepanshu Natani, 2020).

Gathering and producing high quality requirements is not a simple task.
There are many potential challenges that can arise while generating
requirements. One of them was mentioned in the beginning of this
document, which is communication between the technical staff and the
stakeholder. There are many ways to mitigate this complication, the
first being separating the technical staff from the stakeholders
altogether. Many times, there is a role in between the stakeholder and
the engineer called a "Product Owner". The product owner may have some
technical knowledge but is primarily an expert in the domain of the
product being developed and in software requirements engineering and
scrum/agile techniques. This individual is responsible for compiling
these requirements from the stakeholders so that the engineers don't
risk creating solutions while requirements are gathered (keeping
requirements and design separated).

Another potential complication during the requirements engineering
process is evolving requirements. Sometimes stakeholders may request
additional features or make changes during development. In software
development this is often called "scope creep". To mitigate the impact
of scope creep, there needs to be a change management process, or change
control plan. It's unrealistic to think that requirements won't change
during development of the product, but this change needs to be managed
and approved. Without this approval process, deadlines and budgets could
be at risk (Westland, 2022).

Deepanshu Natani. (2020, September 15). The art of writing good
requirements. Atlassian Community.
https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Jira-articles/The-art-of-writing-good-requirements/ba-p/1482103

Westland, J. (2022, February 14). What is change control in project
management? ProjectManager.com.
https://www.projectmanager.com/blog/what-is-change-control-in-project-management
