**Modernizing "Heartland Escapes" to a Cloud-Hosted Infrastructure**

Aidan Polivka

CS630 -- Modern Operating Systems

Colorado Technical University

October 24, 2023

# Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}

[Project Outline [3](#project-outline)](#project-outline)

[OS Processor and Core
[4](#os-processor-and-core)](#os-processor-and-core)

[Scheduling Algorithms
[5](#scheduling-algorithms)](#scheduling-algorithms)

[OS Concurrency Mechanism
[6](#os-concurrency-mechanism)](#os-concurrency-mechanism)

[OS Security Risks and Mitigation Strategy
[7](#os-security-risks-and-mitigation-strategy)](#os-security-risks-and-mitigation-strategy)

[Future Considerations Using Emerging Technology
[8](#future-considerations-using-emerging-technology)](#future-considerations-using-emerging-technology)

[References [9](#references)](#references)

# Project Outline

"Heartland Escapes" is a bookstore located in Nebraska. They have been
in Lincoln for quite a few years, opening their first store in 2010 and
their second store in 2019. The store has recently seen a lot of success
through a new marketing scheme using popular social media platforms like
Instagram and Tik Tok. Much of their popularity can be attributed to the
regular events they host, like the "school's out reading program",
author meet-and-greets, and Halloween scary story readings. Because of
their recent spike in consumer interest, they plan on expanding their
business to neighboring cities, one location in Omaha and another in
Grand Island.

Since their store first opened in 2009, "Heartland Escapes" hasn't had
any major upgrades to their technological hardware or software besides
minor increases in disk space, ram, and a processor upgrade. Their
current system is hosted on the premises of their first store location
and consists of a windows 2008 server machine with an Intel Core i7-8700
processor. The Intel Core i7-8700 64-bit processor operates with 6 cores
and 12 threads (IntelÂ® CoreTM I7-8700 Processor (12M Cache, up to 4.60
GHz) Product Specifications, n.d.). Its Clock rate is 3.2 GHz, its L2
Cache is 256 KB for each core, and its L3 Cache is 12 MB. The server
works with 8 gigabytes of RAM and has 8 TB of Hard Disk space, 3.5 TB
being occupied. This server hosts a home-grown point-of-sale system, a
home-grown inventory system, and a public website all written in .NET
Framework 4.8 web forms, along with a Microsoft SQL Server containing an
inventory database and an accounting database. A network of 8 machines
between the two locations consume the Point-of-Sale web application and
Inventory service, and the website interacts with the inventory service
so that users can search for books in each store location from the
comfort and convenience of their own homes. With the addition of two new
stores and the added complexity of an ever-expanding consumer base,
"Heartland Escapes" is looking to upgrade their system to take advantage
of the scalability, monitoring, security, and management simplicity of a
cloud hosted system.

Seeing as their current system is very Microsoft heavy and they expect
continuous growth, my proposal to "Heartland Escapes" is to migrate
their infrastructure to Azure and to keep their on-premises server to
store a physical backup of their cloud system. I think migrating to the
cloud would be highly beneficial for their expectation of seeing
continuous growth, and cloud services offer a lot of opportunities for
scaling up hardware for periods of increased traffic rather than needing
to always have CPUs available. This is would easily resolve the domain
need created by "Heartland Escapes" periodic promotional events. Azure
is the cloud platform that I'm most familiar with, and it's also a
Microsoft product which would be brand consistent with their .NET
applications and MS SQL Server database management system.

I think the configuration in Azure should be separated into two resource
groups, one for data and infrastructure and the other for applications,
with all resources being in the us central region. In the application
storage container, there will be three app services. One for the
Point-of-Sale web application, one for the Inventory Service, and one
for the public website. Azure App Services are containers with a
configurable base operating system, and in this case, I think all
services would run on a windows system for simplicity since deploying to
a different operating system could potentially lead to unforeseen
issues. The app services would live under an app service plan using the
Premium v3 P1V3 hardware tier. This tier has two vCPUs and 8 GB of RAM
per instance and can scale up to 30 instances. This would be a starting
point to scale up or down from. In the data and infrastructure group,
there would be an Azure SQL Server hosting both databases, and there
would be a virtual network (vNet) that manages firewall rules and
security concerns between the secure parts of the system, and a vNet
Gateway would exist so that users could access the system via VPN. The
public website would be the only aspect of the system outside of the
vNet. The vNet would only be accessible via gateway, and the website's
public IP address would have access as well.

# OS Processor and Core

## Migration Benefits

There are many benefits to migrating to Azure. On the surface it looks
like the new hardware is less capable than the existing hardware, but
that isn't true at all. Each service instance has access to 2 virtual
CPUs, and there are 30 available instances, meaning the system now has
access to 60 virtual cores where the whole system originally shared 6
cores! The applications should not need that much processing power
either, and Azure allows administrators to easily scale the application
resources up and down. So as the demand for this system grows, the
hardware can grow with it naturally at the click of a few buttons. The
scalability of Azure App Service instances is so advanced that you can
create rules for scaling that dictate whether another instance of the
app service should be created based on date, CPU percentage thresholds,
memory thresholds, and minimum and maximum threshold limits (Ed Baynash,
2023).

Because the system is now distributed into individual azure components,
the load on the system is localized to individual services rather than
the entire system itself. So, if the database is performing a large
batch operation that's taking up resources, the deployed services aren't
going to feel a slow down (unless they're accessing the database). Not
only is the load better distributed in this way, but again the scaling
aspect applies here. Each service could be configured to have a maximum
of 10 instances, and to increase or decrease the instance number by one
based on average CPU Percentage metrics or RAM metrics. With that
configuration it would take a lot of traffic to overwhelm any of the
three services.

An additional benefit is the increased reliability of the system. These
services are now decoupled from a single machine and are running on an
operating system managed and upgraded by Microsoft. This means that
there is no longer the single point of failure from being hosted by an
on premises machine, and if there is a failure on an instance of an app
service then another instance can pick up the slack. This also means
that any security updates for the underlying operating system are not
the responsibility of the individual maintaining the system, but the
responsibility of Microsoft. This deferred responsibility is a positive
in this case, because Microsoft is going to ensure that their PaaS
services are as secure as possible so that they aren't liable for any
breaches. Microsoft can make these upgrades with very limited down time.
Speaking of down time, the P1V3 service tier boasts a 99.95% yearly
availability, which could arguably be more available than the
on-premises system depending on what "Heartland Escapes" machine
maintenance looked like.

## Distributed Systems and CPU Scaling

This upgrade is by all definitions distributed and virtual. What I mean
by this is, the individual applications that were originally hosted on
that single machine are now distributed into their own containers with
exclusive access to a pool of processing, memory, and security
resources. Azure being used as a Platform as a Service allows for this
to be done very quickly and easily through their Azure Portal UI. These
distributions are virtual as well. As stated in the project outline,
Azure App Services are really containers, running on the base operating
system defined by their App Service Plan which is a virtual host of the
containers. At the heart of every cloud service is really a massive
server farm with thousands of processors, even more cores, terabytes of
RAM, and petabytes of disk space distributed into many virtual machines.

Because of this, there is really a lack of control around the specific
processor used for your deployed Azure services. What is available to a
user of Azure is the ability to upgrade the number of virtual CPUs.
There isn't much information online about how many cores are available
in an Azure vCPU, they use a different unit of measurement for
performance since multiple vCPUs can span across the same physical core.
You can increase the processing power depending on the tier of your App
Service Plan, but I haven't been able to find a direct comparison of the
Azure Compute Unit (ACU) to existing processors, or how that ACU is
calculated (Micah McKittrick, 2022). So, at my level of understanding,
to "upgrade a CPU" you really need to upgrade the App Service Plan that
hosts your App Services. Because of how obfuscated the user of the cloud
service is from the details of the individual vCPU, the decision of
whether to upgrade the App Service Plan tier (effectively upgrading the
vCPU) is dependent upon cost of the upgrade, how much additional
performance is expected from the upgrade, whether that performance
upgrade is crucial to the design of the system, and bureaucratic
approval. There isn't much additional need for migration or security
concerns since that's all baked into Azure as a service. Since Azure has
advance logging and performance reporting, testing the upgraded plan
would mainly consist of monitoring.

# Scheduling Algorithms

The "Heartland Escapes" modern environment is a distributed virtual
environment hosted by Azure. The migration plan is to use a
containerized approach by taking advantage of the platform as a service
capabilities of Azure App Services. Because the base environments of App
Service containers aren't configurable, the proposed migration plan
won't allow for control over the scheduling algorithms. With that in
mind, this section will discuss hypothetically which scheduling
algorithms would be best for this environment if it were a configurable
option. Because App Services are all hosted under an "App Service Plan"
(ASP) and the ASP dictates the operating environment, this section will
assume that the best scheduling algorithms should be optimal for all
services deployed under the ASP.

## Multilevel Queue

The primary algorithm that should be used in this environment is the
multilevel queue scheduling algorithm. In this algorithm each process is
assigned a priority level, typically determined by process type
(interactive user process or background batch process), execution time,
resource utilization, completion deadline constraints, and many other
variables. This scheduling algorithm consists of many queues, one for
each priority level. After the priority of a process is determined, it's
added to its respective priority queue. Each priority queue has its own
scheduling algorithm that's configured based upon what priority of
processes it's managing. Ideally this algorithm would also take process
age into account when assigning priority and reassign process priority
at preemption to mitigate the possibility of process starvation
(Multilevel Queue (MLQ) CPU Scheduling).

The biggest advantage of this algorithm is how efficiently it manages
processes with different priorities and properties. Critical tasks are
always processed with high authority, and low priority tasks are put
behind the high priority tasks. This is also a highly responsive
scheduler. If you consider that interactive user processes are typically
high priority tasks, the responsiveness of the system from the user's
perspective would be very high. The preemption of low priority processes
in favor of high-priority processes is also a contributing factor to the
responsiveness of the system (Multilevel Queue (MLQ) CPU Scheduling).
This responsiveness would be important for processes like inventory
requests and financial transactions, and the aging factor of the low
priority tasks should ensure that batch processes like scheduled
reporting aren't starved of resources or importance. Additionally, this
algorithm should be great at providing equitable resource distribution
to each virtual container.

A disadvantage of this algorithm is the possible starvation of
low-priority tasks. Most multilevel queue algorithms resolve this
problem by reassigning priority to processes after quantum completion
with aging being factored into the priority calculation. So, if a low
priority task has sat for an extended period in the low priority queue,
it can elevate itself in priority based upon much it has aged in the
system. Another disadvantage would be the complexity of configuration.
There is a lot to manage when considering assigning priority to
processes (especially when considering aging policies), configuring
sub-queue scheduling algorithms, and preemption policies. There is also
a lot of context switching in this scheduling algorithm between the
different priority queues and preemption of low priority tasks, which
can lead to excessive overhead. All these complexities can be
exacerbated by the virtual environment (Multilevel Queue (MLQ) CPU
Scheduling).

## Round Robin

The secondary scheduling algorithm that should be used within the
multilevel queue algorithm is the "Round-Robin" scheduling algorithm.
This algorithm would be used to manage the processes in each of the
multilevel priority queues. The Round-Robin algorithm has two major
components, a queue and a "Time Quantum" (also known as a "Time Slice"
or "Time Slot"). The time quantum is a unit of time typically in the
size of milliseconds, and it's the allotted time that the process can be
acted upon before it gets sent back to the end of the process queue.
This scheduling algorithm gets its name from the cyclical nature in
which it manages processes. If the process can't be completed during the
time quantum, then it must wait until the other processes have had a
turn to be operated upon. In the context of the multilevel queue
algorithm, the high priority Round-Robin queue would have a short
quantum so that each high priority task would be operated upon quickly.
The low priority Round-Robin queue would have a long quantum to reduce
operational overhead and state memory management (Stallings, 2018,
p.409).

This scheduling algorithm is well liked because it's fair. Every process
gets an equivalent amount of CPU attention before it's preempted. This
fairness also typically results in a quick response time for a process
to be acted upon since long running processes are limited by the time
quantum. A short quantum would result in tasks moving quickly through
the queue, which typically means an even faster response time
(Stallings, 2018, p.409). This fairness is amplified by the priority
assignment provided by the multilevel queue algorithm, making high
priority tasks more responsive while also ensuring low priority tasks
aren't neglected. It also heightens the multilevel queue algorithm's
ability to effectively distribute resources to virtual entities.

This algorithm also comes with its faults, some mitigated by using it in
conjunction with the multilevel queue algorithm. It requires a lot of
overhead for the processor to context switch since it needs to save the
state of the current process and load the state of the next one
(Stallings, 2018, p.409). A short quantum will exacerbate the overhead
problem since processes would have a higher probability of being
preempted, and this strain can be magnified by needing to manage virtual
resources. On its own the Round-Robin scheduling algorithm can result in
starvation of critical processes, but this problem is nonexistent when
Round-Robin is utilized as a secondary algorithm to the multilevel queue
algorithm. Because each process is sorted into queues based on priority,
critical tasks have greater authority in the system and are processed
first.

There are independent variations of the Round-Robin algorithm that also
attempt to resolve the starvation issue by assigning priority to tasks.
This priority assignment gives high priority tasks either a more
favorable position in the queue after the quantum is completed, an
increased time quantum, or both. While these standalone variations of
the Round-Robin algorithm are great, if implemented in this system they
would only result in unnecessary complexity.

When discussing the disadvantages of the Round-Robin algorithm some
would consider the unfair treatment of I/O processes as a major
drawback. Since I/O-bound processes are blocked by their device, this
could result in the process being pushed back to the end of the queue
because the blocking device took up the processes available quantum for
that iteration through the ready queue. This is often mitigated using
the Virtual Round-Robin variation, which consists of an additional I/O
auxiliary queue. After the process has a first pass through the ready
queue it's sent to its devices I/O Queue. Once the device is done with
the process, it's sent to the auxiliary queue. This queue is handled in
a first come first serve manner and takes priority over the Round-Robin
ready queue processing. The processes in the auxiliary queue get the
same time quantum to complete as the Round-Robin ready queue (Stallings,
2018, p.410-411). This shouldn't be necessary in our system since the
App Services won't have any I/O connected devices.

## Multilevel and Round-Robin "Heartland Escapes" Impact

Given the advantages and disadvantages of the Multilevel Queue and the
Round-Robin scheduling algorithms, together they should be a great fit
for the "Heartland Escapes" system architecture. Both algorithms are
beneficial to ensuring responsiveness, Round-Robin being overall
responsiveness and Multilevel Queue being critical responsiveness.
Working in tandem, these two algorithms should ensure quick delivery of
financial transactions for the point-of-sale system and fast service of
inventory data both to the point-of-sale system and public website.
Because of the Multilevel Queue's ability to set priority of processes
based on process age, this should allow batch processes like reporting
jobs to complete without risk of starvation. Considering that both the
Round-Robin and Multilevel Queue algorithms are strong in their ability
to distribute resources to virtual entities, they should be very strong
together in their ability to host this containerized environment.
However, these algorithms are both weakened by overhead concerns in
processes preemption, so careful configuration should be considered when
determining preemptive policies and Round-Robin quantum sizes between
priority queues.

# OS Concurrency Mechanism

With "Heartland Escapes" being hosted on a network of web services and
APIs, the most important and prevalent concurrency mechanism that will
be used in this environment is message passing. Each Azure App Service
is going to need to make network calls to their neighboring services.
The publicly accessible website will need to communicate to the
Inventory API to deliver inventory information on available books at
different stores. The point-of-sale system will need to communicate to
the inventory API to request and update inventory data, and it will need
to make calls directly to the accounting database to log customer
transactions. Considering that there will be far fewer write operations
on each database than read operations, the second concurrency mechanism
that I'd like to discuss will be the critical sections.

## Message Passing

Message passing is an essential concurrency mechanism in most
distributed computing environments, and this is especially true in a
containerized microservice environment like this simple implementation
for "Heartland Escapes". The only way for our distributed services and
processes to communicate with one another is over network messaging. In
this system, messages are transferred between machines via HTTP or RPC
protocols. Message passing requires two parties, a sender and a
receiver. This sending and receiving process needs some level of
synchronization, which can be achieved in a few formats (Stallings,
2018, p.237).

1.  **Blocking Send, Blocking Receive**. Both the sending process and
    receiving process stop and wait for the messaging mechanism to
    complete. This is common in tightly synchronized processes; you can
    see this in synchronous http GET request to an API. The "Heartland
    Escapes" website has a page that displays a list of books, and the
    book data is distributed by the Inventory API. The website client
    will make a request to the API and wait for a response so it can
    build that display.

2.  **Nonblocking Send, Blocking Receive**. This is also a common
    messaging mechanism, where the sender doesn't care what happens
    after it sends the message. This is also prevalent in web
    development. When a book is sold the Point-Of-Sale will make a
    request to the Inventory API to remove a book from inventory, but it
    doesn't really care about the response from the API. So, the
    Point-Of-Sale system will continue operating, and the API will
    resume a waiting state after it performs its process.

3.  **Nonblocking Send, Nonblocking Receive**. In this case, neither the
    sender nor receiver is waiting to process other messages. You can
    see this in an event driven architecture, where the sender might
    send an event to any listening service. That listening service might
    be operating on a queue of messages, and it'll operate on the
    message distributed by the sender when it's that messages turn. The
    sender won't wait for a response, and the receiver isn't necessarily
    waiting for a message. I don't believe that there is a good example
    of this in the context of "Heartland Escapes", but the option is out
    there for future development.

Any messages passed over a network are subject to network related
synchronization complications like network latency, message delivery
reliability, race conditions between machines, load balancing, and fault
tolerance. If one node is making a request to the inventory API and is
having networking issues, this could result in message ordering
complications or the loss of the message entirely. Thankfully there are
some complications that are inherently handled by Azure in the Platform
as a Service architecture, like fault tolerance. Azure handles this by
multi-regional redundancy.

There are infrastructure options available in Azure to increase message
resiliency like Azure Arc-enabled Open Service Mesh (de Bruin, 2023) and
multi-region redundancy, but this doesn't handle all network failures. A
couple common development practices in ensuring message resiliency are
retries and circuit breakers. A retry policy is a configuration in your
application that allows failed messages to be re-sent over a
configurable duration or retry attempt limit, with a configurable wait
time between retry attempts. Because we're working with .NET
applications, if we migrate our applications to .NET 7 these policies
are available out of the box (Montemagno, 2023). There are also entity
framework configurations that allow for message retries to our database
management system (Montemagno, 2023). This message retry capability
provides further advantages in fault tolerance in the event of receiving
node failure. If a node was not online or incurred some other failure,
the re-attempted message would be directed to an effective node.

Circuit Breakers allow for a pause between sets of retry attempts, which
is useful in the scenario that the requested resource isn't returning a
response due to heavy load. This is configurable in a similar way to
retry policies in .NET (Caron, 2018), but in our scenario with
"Heartland Escapes" I don't believe that circuit breaking is necessary
due to the number of instances that are available for each service. Some
infrastructure tools like service meshes have these retry and circuit
breaking policies incorporated, but I couldn't find any information on
this for Azure Arc.

Message ordering complications, duplications, and race conditions can
also be mitigated using proper concurrency conscious development
practices like idempotent development and event sourcing. Idempotent
development is a practice that specifically handles duplicate messages.
An example of idempotent development in the context of "Heartland
Escapes" is if a duplicate message is sent to purchase a book. Since the
first message will log the sale of the book with the message Id, we'll
check to see if the book was already sold and if the message Id matches
the current message being processed. If it\'s determined that this
message is a duplicate, we'll log a message to the console reflecting
the scenario and cancel the process (Hyett, 2023).

Event sourcing is a data practice that consists of storing entity events
and their message data, then building the entity on the fly when it's
needed to be used for some process (Kuan). Since our system isn't
necessarily event based, message ordering shouldn't be an issue due to
the nature of the system. If we wanted to turn "Heartland Escapes" into
a fully fledged e-commerce system with orders, delivery systems, etc.,
then event sourcing would be a more warranted practice. These two
concerns can also be managed with infrastructure tools like message
brokers, service meshes, and event meshes.

## Critical Sections

Since "Heartland Escapes" SQL Server environment is going to be hosted
on a windows system, we have access to concurrency mechanisms like
Critical Sections. Critical sections operate similarly to other
synchronization mechanisms like mutexes and semaphores but differ in
that only a single process can access a critical section at a time.
Critical sections are preferred in some cases because they are a more
efficient operation than a mutex or semaphore (Stallings, 2018, p.300).
According to GeeksForGeeks (2010) there are three attributes to Critical
sections that are integral to synchronization.

1.  Mutual Exclusion. Only one process can enter a critical section at a
    time, which is similar to the functionality defined by Mutexes
    (which is short for Mutual Exclusion) and semaphores.

2.  Progress. If the critical section is open for processing and
    multiple processes want to enter their critical sections, only the
    processes that are waiting can decide which enters the critical
    section. Processes in contention for a critical section can't be
    deliberated forever, a process needs to be chosen in a timely
    manner.

3.  Bounded waiting. There is a limit on how many times other processes
    can continue to enter a critical section ahead of a process whose
    requested access to a critical section, that way processes aren't
    starved of access.

Critical sections offer a lot of benefits in terms of concurrency
control like synchronization, prevention of race conditions, deadlock
prevention, data integrity, thread safety, and mutual exclusion of
shared resources. All these benefits are predicated upon the critical
section being properly implemented and within a scenario that requires
such a level of control. Deadlocks and starvation can all be results of
poorly implemented critical sections, so they have the potential to be a
double-edged sword. By nature, the concept of critical sections prevents
race conditions and provides mutual exclusion in only a single process
is allowed to operate on the critical section or have access to a
critical resource at a time. This single process access also results in
simpler synchronization. Another advantage to using critical sections is
CPU utilization. Allowing processes to wait without cycling can result
in a reduction of CPU utilization but increases memory overhead.

As foreshadowed in the previous segment, critical sections don't exist
without faults. Deadlocks are a concern in poor implementations of this
concurrency control mechanism, and processes actively waiting on
critical section access can result in high memory overhead. Poorly
implemented critical sections can also result in process starvation,
especially if the scope of the critical resource is large. Allowing only
a single thread to access a resource at a time can severely limit
parallelism as well, but the tradeoff is thread safety.

Critical sections used in code can be implemented using a locking
mechanism. The operating thread requests an exclusive lock on a
resource, and if it's granted then it proceeds to operate. Once its
operation is complete, it releases the lock for another thread to
operate. In terms of "Heartland Escapes", this would be incredibly
useful in database operations. Consider a scenario where "Heartland
Escapes" has a table for books in stock. This table has columns for book
Id, book title, author name, genre, and quantity in stock. If an
employee is selling a book while another employee is logging an increase
in that book's stock at the same time, this could lead to contention for
that record in the table. However, if the operating threads can create a
critical section around the individual record in the book inventory
table, the risk of two processes writing to the same record at the same
time is mitigated.

Individual threads communicate amongst each other in the initial request
for the critical section. If the request is denied, that means that
another process is acting upon the critical section and the denied
thread needs to wait for the resource to be open for operation. This
locking mechanism can be managed by either a mutex or a semaphore in
memory indicating that the resource is open or closed for use.

# OS Security Risks and Mitigation Strategy

# Future Considerations Using Emerging Technology 

# References

IntelÂ® CoreTM i7-8700 Processor (12M Cache, up to 4.60 GHz) Product
Specifications. (n.d.). Ark.intel.com.
<https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/126686/intel-core-i7-8700-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html>

Ed Baynash et. al. (2023, April 10). Get started with autoscale in
Azure - Azure Monitor. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/autoscale/autoscale-get-started?toc=%2Fazure%2Fapp-service%2Ftoc.json>

Micah McKittrick et. al. (2022, April 29). Overview of the Azure Compute
Unit - Azure Virtual Machines. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/acu>

Multilevel Queue (MLQ) CPU Scheduling. (2017, September 26).
GeeksforGeeks.
<https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/multilevel-queue-mlq-cpu-scheduling/>

Stallings, W. (2018). Operating Systems: Internals and Design
Principles. Pearson Education Inc.

de Bruin, P. (2023). Manage and deploy Kubernetes in Azure Arc - Azure
Architecture Center. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/hybrid/arc-hybrid-kubernetes>

Montemagno, J. (2023, October 6). Implement HTTP call retries with
exponential backoff with Polly - .NET. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/implement-http-call-retries-exponential-backoff-polly>

Montemagno, J. (2023, March 1). Implement resilient Entity Framework
Core SQL connections - .NET. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/implement-resilient-entity-framework-core-sql-connections>

Caron, R. (2018, June 28). Using the Retry pattern to make your cloud
application more resilient \| Azure Blog \| Microsoft Azure. Azure Blog.
<https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/using-the-retry-pattern-to-make-your-cloud-application-more-resilient/>

âHyett, A. (2023, September 22).Idempotency - What it is and How to
Implement it. (2023, September 22). DEV Community.
<https://dev.to/alexhyettdev/idempotency-what-it-is-and-how-to-implement-it-4008>

Kuan, M. (n.d.). Event Sourcing pattern - Azure Architecture Center.
Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing>

geeksforgeeks. (2010, December 25). Critical Section in Synchronization.
GeeksforGeeks. <https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/g-fact-70/>

â

â

â

â

â

â
