**Modernizing "Heartland Escapes" to a Cloud-Hosted Infrastructure**

Aidan Polivka

CS630 -- Modern Operating Systems

Colorado Technical University

October 9, 2023

# Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}

[Project Outline [3](#project-outline)](#project-outline)

[OS Processor and Core
[4](#os-processor-and-core)](#os-processor-and-core)

[Scheduling Algorithms
[5](#scheduling-algorithms)](#scheduling-algorithms)

[OS Concurrency Mechanism
[6](#os-concurrency-mechanism)](#os-concurrency-mechanism)

[OS Security Risks and Mitigation Strategy
[7](#os-security-risks-and-mitigation-strategy)](#os-security-risks-and-mitigation-strategy)

[Future Considerations Using Emerging Technology
[8](#future-considerations-using-emerging-technology)](#future-considerations-using-emerging-technology)

[References [9](#references)](#references)

# Project Outline

"Heartland Escapes" is a bookstore located in Nebraska. They have been
in Lincoln for quite a few years, opening their first store in 2010 and
their second store in 2019. The store has recently seen a lot of success
through a new marketing scheme using popular social media platforms like
Instagram and Tik Tok. Much of their popularity can be attributed to the
regular events they host, like the "school's out reading program",
author meet-and-greets, and Halloween scary story readings. Because of
their recent spike in consumer interest, they plan on expanding their
business to neighboring cities, one location in Omaha and another in
Grand Island.

Since their store first opened in 2009, "Heartland Escapes" hasn't had
any major upgrades to their technological hardware or software besides
minor increases in disk space, ram, and a processor upgrade. Their
current system is hosted on the premises of their first store location
and consists of a windows 2008 server machine with an Intel Core i7-8700
processor. The Intel Core i7-8700 64-bit processor operates with 6 cores
and 12 threads (IntelÂ® CoreTM I7-8700 Processor (12M Cache, up to 4.60
GHz) Product Specifications, n.d.). Its Clock rate is 3.2 GHz, its L2
Cache is 256 KB for each core, and its L3 Cache is 12 MB. The server
works with 8 gigabytes of RAM and has 8 TB of Hard Disk space, 3.5 TB
being occupied. This server hosts a home-grown point-of-sale system, a
home-grown inventory system, and a public website all written in .NET
Framework 4.8 web forms, along with a Microsoft SQL Server containing an
inventory database and an accounting database. A network of 8 machines
between the two locations consume the Point-of-Sale web application and
Inventory service, and the website interacts with the inventory service
so that users can search for books in each store location from the
comfort and convenience of their own homes. With the addition of two new
stores and the added complexity of an ever-expanding consumer base,
"Heartland Escapes" is looking to upgrade their system to take advantage
of the scalability, monitoring, security, and management simplicity of a
cloud hosted system.

Seeing as their current system is very Microsoft heavy and they expect
continuous growth, my proposal to "Heartland Escapes" is to migrate
their infrastructure to Azure and to keep their on-premises server to
store a physical backup of their cloud system. I think migrating to the
cloud would be highly beneficial for their expectation of seeing
continuous growth, and cloud services offer a lot of opportunities for
scaling up hardware for periods of increased traffic rather than needing
to always have CPUs available. This is would easily resolve the domain
need created by "Heartland Escapes" periodic promotional events. Azure
is the cloud platform that I'm most familiar with, and it's also a
Microsoft product which would be brand consistent with their .NET
applications and MS SQL Server database management system.

I think the configuration in Azure should be separated into two resource
groups, one for data and infrastructure and the other for applications,
with all resources being in the us central region. Starting with the
application storage container, there would be three app services. One
for the Point-of-Sale web application, one for the Inventory Service,
and one for the public website. Azure App Services are containers with a
configurable base operating system, and in this case, I think all
services would run on a windows system for simplicity since deploying to
a different operating system could potentially lead to unforeseen
issues. The app services would live under an app service plan using the
Premium v3 P1V3 hardware tier. This tier has two vCPUs and 8 GB of RAM
per instance and can scale up to 30 instances. This would be a starting
point to scale up or down from. In the data and infrastructure group,
there would be an Azure SQL Server hosting both databases, and there
would be a virtual network (vNet) that manages firewall rules and
security concerns between the secure parts of the system, and a vNet
Gateway would exist so that users could access the system via VPN. The
public website would be the only aspect of the system outside of the
vNet. The vNet would only be accessible via gateway, and the website's
public IP address would have access as well.

# OS Processor and Core

## Migration Benefits

There are many benefits to migrating to Azure. On the surface it looks
like the new hardware is less capable than the existing hardware, but
that isn't true at all. Each service instance has access to 2 virtual
CPUs, and there are 30 available instances, meaning the system now has
access to 60 virtual cores where the whole system originally shared 6
cores! The applications should not need that much processing power
either, and Azure allows administrators to easily scale the application
resources up and down. So as the demand for this system grows, the
hardware can grow with it naturally at the click of a few buttons. The
scalability of Azure App Service instances is so advanced that you can
create rules for scaling that dictate whether another instance of the
app service should be created based on date, CPU percentage thresholds,
memory thresholds, and minimum and maximum threshold limits (Ed Baynash,
2023).

Because the system is now distributed into individual azure components,
the load on the system is localized to individual services rather than
the entire system itself. So, if the database is performing a large
batch operation that's taking up resources, the deployed services aren't
going to feel a slow down (unless they're accessing the database). Not
only is the load better distributed in this way, but again the scaling
aspect applies here. Each service could be configured to have a maximum
of 10 instances, and to increase or decrease the instance number by one
based on average CPU Percentage metrics or RAM metrics. With that
configuration it would take a lot of traffic to overwhelm any of the
three services.

An additional benefit is the increased reliability of the system. These
services are now decoupled from a single machine and are running on an
operating system managed and upgraded by Microsoft. This means that
there is no longer the single point of failure from being hosted by an
on premises machine, and if there is a failure on an instance of an app
service then another instance can pick up the slack. This also means
that any security updates for the underlying operating system are not
the responsibility of the individual maintaining the system, but the
responsibility of Microsoft. This deferred responsibility is a positive
in this case, because Microsoft is going to ensure that their PaaS
services are as secure as possible so that they aren't liable for any
breaches. Microsoft can make these upgrades with very limited down time.
Speaking of down time, the P1V3 service tier boasts a 99.95% yearly
availability, which could arguably be more available than the
on-premises system depending on what "Heartland Escapes" machine
maintenance looked like.

## Distributed Systems and CPU Scaling

This upgrade is by all definitions distributed and virtual. What I mean
by this is, the individual applications that were originally hosted on
that single machine are now distributed into their own containers with
exclusive access to a pool of processing, memory, and security
resources. Azure being used as a Platform as a Service allows for this
to be done very quickly and easily through their Azure Portal UI. These
distributions are virtual as well. As stated in the project outline,
Azure App Services are really containers, running on the base operating
system defined by their App Service Plan which is a virtual host of the
containers. At the heart of every cloud service is really a massive
server farm with thousands of processors, even more cores, terabytes of
RAM, and petabytes of disk space distributed into many virtual machines.

Because of this, there is really a lack of control around the specific
processor used for your deployed Azure services. What is available to a
user of Azure is the ability to upgrade the number of virtual CPUs.
There isn't much information online about how many cores are available
in an Azure vCPU, they use a different unit of measurement for
performance since multiple vCPUs can span across the same physical core.
You can increase the processing power depending on the tier of your App
Service Plan, but I haven't been able to find a direct comparison of the
Azure Compute Unit (ACU) to existing processors, or how that ACU is
calculated (Micah McKittrick, 2022). So, at my level of understanding,
to "upgrade a CPU" you really need to upgrade the App Service Plan that
hosts your App Services. Because of how obfuscated the user of the cloud
service is from the details of the individual vCPU, the decision of
whether to upgrade the App Service Plan tier (effectively upgrading the
vCPU) is dependent upon cost of the upgrade, how much additional
performance is expected from the upgrade, whether that performance
upgrade is crucial to the design of the system, and bureaucratic
approval. There isn't much additional need for migration or security
concerns since that's all baked into Azure as a service. Since Azure has
advance logging and performance reporting, testing the upgraded plan
would mainly consist of monitoring.

# Scheduling Algorithms

# OS Concurrency Mechanism

# OS Security Risks and Mitigation Strategy

# Future Considerations Using Emerging Technology 

# References

IntelÂ® CoreTM i7-8700 Processor (12M Cache, up to 4.60 GHz) Product
Specifications. (n.d.). Ark.intel.com.
<https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/126686/intel-core-i7-8700-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html>

Ed Baynash et. al. (2023, April 10). Get started with autoscale in
Azure - Azure Monitor. Learn.microsoft.com.
<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/autoscale/autoscale-get-started?toc=%2Fazure%2Fapp-service%2Ftoc.json>

Micah McKittrick et. al. (2022, April 29). Overview of the Azure Compute
Unit - Azure Virtual Machines. Learn.microsoft.com.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/acu
