The first scheduling algorithm that caught my eye was the "Round-Robin"
scheduling algorithm. The Round-Robin algorithm has two major
components, a queue and a "Time Quantum" (also known as a "Time Slice"
or "Time Slot"). The time quantum is a unit of time typically in the
size of milliseconds, and it's the allotted time that the process can be
acted upon before it gets sent back to the end of the process queue.
This scheduling algorithm gets its name from the cyclical nature in
which it manages processes. If the process can't be completed during the
time quantum, then it must wait until the other processes have had a
turn to be operated upon.

This scheduling algorithm is well liked because it's fair. Every process
gets an equivalent amount of CPU attention before it's preempted
(interrupted). This fairness also typically results in a quick response
time for a process to be acted upon since long running processes are
limited by the time quantum. A short quantum would result in tasks
moving quickly through the queue, which typically means an even faster
response time.

This algorithm isn't perfect though. It requires a lot of overhead for
the processor to context switch since it needs to save the state of the
current process and load the state of the next one. A short quantum will
exacerbate the overhead problem since processes would have a higher
probability of being preempted. This algorithm can also result in
"starvation" of critical processes, which means that critical processes
could repeatedly be preempted in favor of low priority processes for the
sake of fairness. There are variations of the round-robin algorithm that
attempt to resolve the starvation issue by assigning priority to tasks.
This priority assignment gives high priority tasks either a more
favorable position in the queue after the quantum is completed, an
increased time quantum, or both.

The second scheduling algorithm that stood out to me is the multilevel
queue scheduling algorithm. This algorithm is much more advanced than
the round-robin algorithm. Each process is assigned a priority level,
typically determined by process type (interactive user process or
background batch process), execution time, resource utilization,
completion deadline constraints, and many other variables. This
scheduling algorithm consists of many queues, one for each assigned
priority level. After the priority of a process is determined, it's
added to its respective priority queue. Each priority queue has its own
scheduling algorithm that's configured based upon what priority of
processes it's managing. For example, the high priority queue might have
a round-robin scheduling algorithm with a short quantum so that those
processes complete rapidly, and a low priority queue might have a
round-robin scheduling algorithm with a large quantum to keep processing
overhead low. The high priority queue can also preempt the low or medium
priority queue so that critical tasks get processed timely.

The biggest advantage of this algorithm is how efficiently it manages
processes with different priorities and properties. Critical tasks are
always processed with high authority, and low priority tasks are put
behind the high priority tasks. This is also a highly responsive
scheduler. If you consider that interactive user processes are typically
high priority tasks, the responsiveness of the system from the user's
perspective would be very high. The preemption of low priority processes
in favor of high-priority processes is also a contributing factor to the
responsiveness of the system.

A disadvantage of this algorithm is the possible starvation of
low-priority tasks. Most multilevel queue algorithms resolve this
problem by reassigning priority to processes after quantum completion
with aging being factored into the priority calculation. So, if a low
priority task has sat for an extended period in the low priority queue,
it can elevate itself in priority based upon much it has aged in the
system. Another disadvantage would be the complexity of configuration.
There is a lot to manage when considering assigning priority to
processes (especially when considering aging policies), configuring
sub-queue scheduling algorithms, and preemption policies. There is also
a lot of context switching in this scheduling algorithm between the
different priority queues and preemption of low priority tasks, which
can lead to a lot of overhead as well.

After submitting my discussion board, I realized that my response was
incomplete. I wrote my original post completely off the rubric and
didn't answer the real discussion questions, so it looks like I got some
work completed toward my IP2Â ðŸ˜…Here is my response to the questions
asked in the assignment details:

The suitability of the Round-Robin scheduling algorithm depends on the
specific environment it operates in. In non-virtual settings where
dedicated hardware resources are readily available, Round-Robin offers
advantages in terms of fairness and predictable response times. It
ensures that each process receives an equal share of CPU attention,
making it an excellent choice for stable and controlled systems.
However, there are drawbacks to consider, including the potential for
high context-switching overhead, especially when using a short time
quantum. Additionally, the algorithm might pose challenges in
environments where efficiency and resource utilization are important due
to the risk of starving critical processes.

On the other hand, in virtual environments where resource sharing and
adaptability are crucial, Round-Robin\'s fairness and quick response
times can be beneficial for ensuring equal resource allocation among
virtual entities. However, the context-switching overhead issue can be
magnified in virtual environments with resource contention. The
adaptability and dynamic resource allocation requirements in virtual
environments make Round-Robin a better fit, emphasizing flexibility and
shared resources over rigid fairness. Therefore, Round-Robin is better
suited for virtual environments.

In non-virtual environments, the multilevel queue scheduling algorithm
offers the advantage of efficiently managing processes with diverse
priorities, ensuring that high-priority tasks receive immediate
attention, and enhancing overall system responsiveness. However, it also
can potentially lead to low-priority task starvation, which necessitates
priority reassignment and aging policies for resolution. Managing
sub-queue scheduling, context switching overhead, and preemption
challenges is generally more manageable in non-virtual environments with
dedicated hardware resources.

In virtual environments, the multilevel queue algorithm excels in
adapting to dynamic resource allocation and ensuring equitable resource
distribution among virtual entities. Similar to non-virtual
environments, it faces the challenge of addressing low-priority task
starvation and requires the implementation of priority reassignment and
aging strategies. The complexity of configuring the algorithm, managing
context switching overhead, and addressing preemption complexities can
become more pronounced in virtual settings.

Overall, the multilevel queue algorithm appears better suited for
virtual environments, where adaptability and dynamic resource management
are critical. While both environments encounter challenges related to
low-priority task starvation, the adaptability and flexibility demanded
in virtual environments make it the more suitable choice for efficiently
allocating resources among diverse virtual entities.

The multilevel queue scheduling algorithm is the more effective choice
over the Round-Robin algorithm for both virtual and non-virtual
environments, including real-time scenarios. It excels in managing
processes with varying priorities, ensuring that high-priority tasks are
quickly addressed while still accommodating lower-priority ones. Its
adaptability, particularly important in dynamic virtual environments,
makes it the better choice for efficient resource allocation to a range
of virtual entities. In non-virtual settings, it offers stability,
predictable resource allocation, and fairness. Also, when configured
appropriately, it can effectively address real-time constraints by
adjusting priority. This versatility makes the multilevel queue
algorithm stand out as the more robust and suitable option over
Round-Robin for a range of computing environments.

Hey Brian, I'm picking on you again this week! I also looked at
Round-Robin scheduling, I think because Dr. Goforth mentioned that it's
one of the better liked scheduling algorithms in our live share. I
thought it was interesting that you outlined that the algorithm isn't
good for tasks with unequal resource needs. I said something similar
about prioritization, but I didn't consider that maybe different
processes might require different hardware resource utilization that
Round-Robin wouldn't recognize. Maybe I read a little too much into what
you said though. I really liked the analogies in your segment on First
Come First Serve, especially the one about TSA not letting you push to
the front of the line if you're late, I thought that was pretty funny
and accurate! I agree with you that Round-Robin is a more desirable
algorithm overall, I think it definitely depends on the use case of the
system. If your system is a super computer targeted at long running
training of complex machine learning algorithms or batch processes,
maybe FCFS would be a better alternative than Round-Robin. Thanks for
sharing your insights!

Aidan

Hi Justin! I liked that you described the disadvantage of priority
scheduling in that it can lead to starvation. I think it was briefly
mentioned in chapter 9 of our textbook, but some prioritization
algorithms evaluate process "age" as a variable in how they prioritize
processes. So, if a process is initially assigned to a low priority but
it's sat in the queue for an extended period without completion, it can
be re-assigned to a higher priority level so that it gets completed.
From what I understand this can add a lot of complexity to the
scheduling algorithm, but it's a way that some people have answered the
starvation problem. I liked how you contrasted the use cases of
Round-Robin and Priority scheduling, I think it's really interesting to
see how they work together in some of the hybrid scheduling algorithms
like multilevel queue scheduling. Thanks for sharing!

Aidan
