Hey all!

My name is Aidan Polivka, and I'm a full stack software engineer from
Lincoln Nebraska. I was born and raised in the capital city Lincoln, and
I spent 4 years in Crete Nebraska for my undergrad. Crete is a small
town just southeast of Lincoln. I'm currently going to CTU in pursuit of
a master's degree in computer science with a dual emphasis in software
engineering and cyber security! At home I have two cats (Smokey &
Bandit). I'm engaged to a really cool girl named Destiny, and we're
planning to get married sometime in June of 2024! My hobbies include
working on small software engineering projects, maintaining a powerful
Minecraft server, smoking cigars while smoking meat, Husker football
(unfortunately), wrenching on cars, and personal fitness.

I started my professional journey at Doane University in Crete with a
small internship writing SQL queries, and then graduated in 2020 with a
B.S. degree in Computer Science. My first job out of college was at a
company called Sandhills Global, and I worked there for a year and a
half modernizing old Visual Basic webforms services into C# .NET MVC
projects. I left Sandhills halfway through 2022 and started at my first
software contracting job where I worked in a variety of software stacks
and cloud platforms. I ended up leaving that company because I was
overworked, and now I'm at Nelnet doing contracting work for the state
of Wisconsin rewriting their unemployment insurance claims system. I'm
primarily a full stack .NET engineer with advanced experience in C# and
VB.NET, React, Angular, multiple database management systems, along with
Azure, Google, and Oracle cloud platforms. I'm hopeful that once I'm
done with my master's I'll be a Senior Engineer or Solution Architect,
eventually I'd like to be the person in charge of outlining development
practices, patterns, and infrastructure decisions.

Reading through our coursework, I'm most excited to learn a bit more
about cryptography. I know quite a bit about cryptography already, but
it's a subject that interests me. I'm also interested in intrusion
detection; I have no experience in that area, so I think I'm guaranteed
to learn something new there!
